# Data Engineering Go Linter Hub

This repository contains the linter rules and configurations to be used by the Go linter aggregator tool
[golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/).

## Available Linters

### GoCritic
Highly extensible Go source code linter providing checks currently missing from other linters.
#### Available rules

### Revive
Revive provides a framework for development of custom rules, and lets us define a strict preset for enhancing our
development & code review processes.
#### Available rules
- add-constant: Allow a maximum of 3 repeated values. Ignore empty string and the numbers 0,1 and 2.
- cognitive-complexity: Tolerate a cognitive-complexity of 10.
- dot-imports: Exclude test files.
- line-length-limit: Tolerate a maximum of 120 characters per line.
- max-public-structs: Tolerate a maximum of 20 public structs per package.
- unexported-naming: Exclude tests.
- unhandled-error: Tolerate commonly not handled errors, mostly from I/O operations.

#### Disabled rules
- confusing-naming

## How to add a new linter to the configuration

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Remember to run the command `make init` to set up the pre-commit and pre-push hooks before start working on the project.

Here is the list of available [linters](https://golangci-lint.run/usage/linters/) for `golangci-lint`. If you want
to add a new linter to the configuration you will need to add a new folder that have the **same name as the linter**
and place inside a file called `lintconfig.yaml` with the configuration for the linter.
You can follow the examples of [gocritic](gocritic/lintconfig.yaml) and [revive](revive/lintconfig.yaml).

> [!CAUTION]
> Do not update the `golangci.yaml` file manually. It will be generated by the `configmaker` tool.
>

## How to run locally
Follow the [official documentation](https://golangci-lint.run/welcome/install/) to install `golangci-lint` and then
run the command `make check-style` to run the linters.
